ports/rp2/newlib/README.md, before:

# Morelib
Morelib seeks to add more POSIX-like functions to the standard newlib-nano library for microcontrollers.

In addition to newlib-nano, morelib depends on FreeRTOS and the Raspberry Pi Pico SDK.

The following functions with 🟢 status are implemented.

## Newlib "syscalls"
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `close` | 🟢 | |
| `execve` | 🔴 | No multiple processes. |
| `_exit` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| [`fcntl`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/fcntl.3p.html) | 🔴 | `DUP` can be done with `dup` function.<br>`GETFD`/`GETFL` not interesting enough.<br>File locks not supported.|
| `fork` | 🔴 | No multiple processes. |
| `fstat` | 🟢 | |
| `getpid` | 🟢 | Returns FreeRTOS task number. |
| `gettimeofday` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| `isatty` | 🟢 | |
| `kill` | 🟡 | Can be used to send signals to other FreeRTOS tasks, if the other task cooperates. |
| `link` | 🔴 | Embedded filesystems are unlikely to support links. |
| `lseek` | 🟢 | |
| `mkdir` | 🟢 | |
| `open` | 🟢 | |
| `read` | 🟢 | |
| `rename` | 🟢 | |
| `sbrk` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| `stat` | 🟢 | |
| `times` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| `unlink` | 🟢 | |
| `write` | 🟢 | |
| `wait` | 🔴 | No multiple processes. |

## dirent.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `alphasort` | 🔴 | |
| `closedir` | 🟢 | |
| `dirfd` | 🔴 | |
| `fdopendir` | 🟢 | |
| `opendir` | 🟢 | |
| `scandir` | 🔴 | |
| `readdir` | 🟢 | |
| `rewinddir` | 🟢 | |

## fcntl.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `creat` | 🔴 | |
| `fcntl` | 🔴 | Defined by newlib |
| `open` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `openat` | 🔴 | |

## sys/stat.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `chmod` | 🔴 | |
| `fchmod` | 🔴 | |
| `fchmodat` | 🔴 | |
| `fstat` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `fstatat` | 🔴 | |
| `futimens` | 🔴 | |
| `lstat` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `mkdir` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib  |
| `mkdirat` | 🔴 | |
| `mkfifo` | 🔴 | |
| `mkfifoat` | 🔴 | |
| `stat` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib  |
| `umask` | 🔴 | |
| `utimensat` | 🔴 | |

## sys/statvfs.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `fstatvfs` | 🟢 | |
| `statvfs` | 🟢 | |

## sys/time.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `utimes` | 🔴 | |

## sys/unistd.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `access` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `alarm`  | 🔴 | |
| `chdir` | 🟢 | |
| `chown` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `close` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `confstr` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `dup`<br>`dup2` | 🟢 | |
| `_exit` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `execl`<br>`execle`<br>`execlp`<br>`execv`<br>`execve`<br>`execvp`| 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `faccessat` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `fchdir` | 🔴 | |
| `fchown` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `fchownat` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `fexecve` | 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `fork` | 🔴 | No multiple processes<br>Defined by newlib |
| `fpathconf` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `fsync` | 🟢 | |
| `ftruncate` | 🟢 | |
| `getcwd` | 🟢 | |
| `getegid`<br>`geteuid`<br>`getgid`<br>`getuid`<br>`setegid`<br>`seteuid`<br>`setgid`<br>`setuid` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `getgroups` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `gethostname` | 🟢 | Uses `HOSTNAME` environment variable|
| `getlogin` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `getopt` |  🔴 | No opt |
| `getpgid`<br>`getpgrp`<br>`getsid`<br>`setpgid`<br>`setsid` | 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `getpid` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `getppid` | 🔴 | |
| `isatty` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `lchown` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `link` | 🔴 | No links<br>Defined by newlib |
| `linkat` | 🔴 | No links |
| `lseek` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `pathconf` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `pause` | 🔴 | |
| `pipe` | 🔴 | |
| `pread`<br>`pwrite` | 🟢 | |
| `read` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `readlink`<br>`readlinkat` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `rmdir` | 🟢 | |
| `sleep` | 🟢 | |
| `symlink`<br>`symlinkat` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `sysconf` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `tcgetpgrp`<br>`tcsetpgrp` | 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `truncate` | 🟢 | |
| `ttyname` | 🔴 | |
| `unlink` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `unlinkat` | 🔴 | | 
| `write` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |

## time.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `asctime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `clock` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `ctime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `difftime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `getdate` | 🔴 | | 
| `gmtime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `localtime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `mktime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `nanosleep` | 🟢 | |
| `strftime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `strptime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `time` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `tzset` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |

# Environment variables
The environment variables are stored in flash memory and are persistent across resets and reflashes of the firmware. They are useful for storing small pieces of information that are needed before or without a filesystem being mounted.

| Variable | Notes | Example |
| - | - | - |
| `COUNTRY` | Country code for wifi | US |
| `HOSTNAME` | Host name used by `gethostname` |
| `ROOT` | How to mount root filesystem: *device* *fstype* [*flags*] | /dev/flash fatfs |
| `TTY` | Device to open for stdio streams| /dev/ttyUSB0 |
| `TZ` | Time zone used by `tzset`| PST8PDT |

Commit message:

switch to picolibc and enable multicore

ports/rp2/newlib/README.md, after:

# Morelib
Morelib seeks to add more POSIX-like functions to newlib-based libc libraries for microcontrollers, such as newlib-nano and picolibc.

In addition to picolibc or newlib-nano, morelib depends on FreeRTOS and the Raspberry Pi Pico SDK.

The following functions with 🟢 status are implemented.

## Newlib "syscalls"
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `close` | 🟢 | |
| `execve` | 🔴 | No multiple processes. |
| `_exit` | 🟢 | |
| [`fcntl`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/fcntl.3p.html) | 🔴 | `DUP` can be done with `dup` function.<br>`GETFD`/`GETFL` not interesting enough.<br>File locks not supported.|
| `fork` | 🔴 | No multiple processes. |
| `fstat` | 🟢 | |
| `getpid` | 🟢 | Returns FreeRTOS task number. |
| `gettimeofday` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| `isatty` | 🟢 | |
| `kill` | 🟢 | No multiple processes, so equivalent to `raise`. |
| `link` | 🔴 | Embedded filesystems are unlikely to support links. |
| `lseek` | 🟢 | |
| `mkdir` | 🟢 | |
| `open` | 🟢 | |
| `read` | 🟢 | |
| `rename` | 🟢 | |
| `sbrk` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| `stat` | 🟢 | |
| `times` | 🟢 | Implemented by Pico SDK. |
| `unlink` | 🟢 | |
| `write` | 🟢 | |
| `wait` | 🔴 | No multiple processes. |

## dirent.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `alphasort` | 🔴 | |
| `closedir` | 🟢 | |
| `dirfd` | 🔴 | |
| `fdopendir` | 🟢 | |
| `opendir` | 🟢 | |
| `scandir` | 🔴 | |
| `readdir` | 🟢 | |
| `rewinddir` | 🟢 | |

## fcntl.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `creat` | 🔴 | |
| `fcntl` | 🔴 | Defined by newlib |
| `open` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `openat` | 🔴 | |

## sys/stat.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `chmod` | 🔴 | |
| `fchmod` | 🔴 | |
| `fchmodat` | 🔴 | |
| `fstat` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `fstatat` | 🔴 | |
| `futimens` | 🔴 | |
| `lstat` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `mkdir` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib  |
| `mkdirat` | 🔴 | |
| `mkfifo` | 🔴 | |
| `mkfifoat` | 🔴 | |
| `stat` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib  |
| `umask` | 🔴 | |
| `utimensat` | 🔴 | |

## sys/statvfs.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `fstatvfs` | 🟢 | |
| `statvfs` | 🟢 | |

## sys/time.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `utimes` | 🔴 | |

## sys/unistd.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `access` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `alarm`  | 🔴 | |
| `chdir` | 🟢 | |
| `chown` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `close` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `confstr` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `dup`<br>`dup2` | 🟢 | |
| `_exit` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `execl`<br>`execle`<br>`execlp`<br>`execv`<br>`execve`<br>`execvp`| 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `faccessat` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `fchdir` | 🔴 | |
| `fchown` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `fchownat` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `fexecve` | 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `fork` | 🔴 | No multiple processes<br>Defined by newlib |
| `fpathconf` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `fsync` | 🟢 | |
| `ftruncate` | 🟢 | |
| `getcwd` | 🟢 | |
| `getegid`<br>`geteuid`<br>`getgid`<br>`getuid`<br>`setegid`<br>`seteuid`<br>`setgid`<br>`setuid` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `getgroups` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `gethostname` | 🟢 | Uses `HOSTNAME` environment variable|
| `getlogin` | 🔴 | No users or groups |
| `getopt` |  🔴 | No opt |
| `getpgid`<br>`getpgrp`<br>`getsid`<br>`setpgid`<br>`setsid` | 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `getpid` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `getppid` | 🔴 | |
| `isatty` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `lchown` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `link` | 🔴 | No links<br>Defined by newlib |
| `linkat` | 🔴 | No links |
| `lseek` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `pathconf` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `pause` | 🔴 | |
| `pipe` | 🔴 | |
| `pread`<br>`pwrite` | 🟢 | |
| `read` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `readlink`<br>`readlinkat` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `rmdir` | 🟢 | |
| `sleep` | 🟢 | |
| `symlink`<br>`symlinkat` | 🔴 | No symbolic links |
| `sysconf` | 🔴 | No conf |
| `tcgetpgrp`<br>`tcsetpgrp` | 🔴 | No multiple processes |
| `truncate` | 🟢 | |
| `ttyname` | 🔴 | |
| `unlink` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `unlinkat` | 🔴 | | 
| `write` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |

## time.h
| Function | Status | Notes |
| - | - | - |
| `asctime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `clock` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `ctime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `difftime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `getdate` | 🔴 | | 
| `gmtime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `localtime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `mktime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `nanosleep` | 🟢 | |
| `strftime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `strptime` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `time` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |
| `tzset` | 🟢 | Defined by newlib |

# Environment variables
The environment variables are stored in flash memory and are persistent across resets and reflashes of the firmware. They are useful for storing small pieces of information that are needed before or without a filesystem being mounted.

| Variable | Notes | Example |
| - | - | - |
| `COUNTRY` | Country code for wifi | US |
| `HOSTNAME` | Host name used by `gethostname` |
| `ROOT` | How to mount root filesystem: *device* *fstype* [*flags*] | /dev/flash fatfs |
| `TTY` | Device to open for stdio streams| /dev/ttyUSB0 |
| `TZ` | Time zone used by `tzset`| PST8PDT |
